"Common Collections" in the Sway Book (#2370)
FuelLabs/sway: docs/src/common-collections/storage_vec.md

# Storage Vectors

The second collection type we’ll look at is `StorageVec<T>`. Just like vectors on the heap (i.e. `Vec<T>`), storage vectors allow you to store more than one value in a single data structure where each value is assigned an index and can only store values of the same type. However, unlike `Vec<T>`, the elements of a `StorageVec` are stored in _persistent storage_, and consecutive elements are not necessarily stored in storage slots that have consecutive keys.

In order to use `StorageVec<T>`, you must first import `StorageVec` as follows:

```sway
{{#include ../../../examples/storage_vec/src/main.sw:storage_vec_import}}
```

Another major difference between `Vec<T>` and `StorageVec<T>` is that `StorageVec<T>` can only be used in a contract because only contracts are allowed to access persistent storage.

## Creating a New Storage Vector

To create a new empty storage vector, we have to declare the vector in a `storage` block as follows:

```sway
{{#include ../../../examples/storage_vec/src/main.sw:storage_vec_decl}}
```

> Just like any other storage variable, two things are requires when declaring a `StorageVec`: a type annotation and an initializers. The initializer is just an empty struct of type `StorageVec` because `StorageVec<T>` itself is an empty struct! Everything that is interesting about `StorageVec<T>` is implemented in its methods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Just like any other storage variable, two things are required when declaring a `StorageVec`: a type annotation and an initializer. The initializer is just an empty struct of type `StorageVec` because `StorageVec<T>` itself is an empty struct! Everything that is interesting about `StorageVec<T>` is implemented in its methods.
```
